---
lab:
    title: 'Lab: Deploying and configuring Windows Server 2019 on Azure VMs'
    type: 'Answer Key'
    module: 'Module 6: Deploying and Configuring Azure VMs'
    order: 12
---

# Lab answer key: Deploying and configuring Windows Server 2019 on Azure VMs

## Exercise 1: Authoring Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates for Azure VM deployment

### Task 1: Enable the Standard tier of Security Center

In this task, you will enable the Standard tier of Azure Security Center.

>**Note**: Skip this task and proceed directly to the next one if you have already upgraded Security Center in your Azure subscription to the Standard tier.

1. From  **SEA-CL1**, start Microsoft Edge, and then navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). When prompted, sign in using a user account with the Owner role in the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab.
1. In the Azure portal, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box, on the toolbar, search for and select **Security Center**.
1. On the **Security Center \| Getting started** blade, select **Upgrade** and then, select **Install agents**.

### Task 2: Generate an ARM template and parameters files by using the Azure portal

In this task, you will use the Azure portal to create resource groups and create a disk in the resource group.

1. From  **SEA-CL1**, start Microsoft Edge, and then navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). When prompted, sign in using a user account with the Owner or the Contributor role, in the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab.
1. In the Azure portal, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box, on the toolbar, search for and select **Virtual machines**. In the **Virtual machines** blade, select **+ Add** and then select **Virtual machine**.
1. In the **Create a virtual machine** blade, on the **Basics** tab, specify the following settings and leave all other settings with their default values, but do not deploy it:

   *Table 1: Azure VM Basics settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Subscription|Use the name of the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab.|
   |Resource group|ws2019-06-rg1|
   |Virtual machine name|ws2019-06-vm0|
   |Region|Use the name of an Azure region in which you can provision Azure virtual machines.|
   |Availability options|No infrastructure redundancy required|
   |Image|Windows Server 2019 Datacenter-Gen1|
   |Azure Spot instance|No|
   |Size|Standard D2s v3|
   |Username|Mike|
   |Password|Pa55w.rd1234|
   |Public inbound ports|None|
   |Already have a Windows Server license|No|

1. Select **Next: Disks >**, and then in the **Create a virtual machine** blade, on the **Disks** tab, specify the following settings, leaving all other settings with their default values:

   *Table 2: Azure VM Disks settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |OS disk type|Standard HDD|

1. Select **Next: Networking >**, and in the **Create a virtual machine** blade, on the  **Networking** tab, select *Create new** hyperlink that follows the *Virtual network** text box*.

1. On the **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following settings, leaving all other settings with their default values, and then select **OK**:

   *Table 3: Azure VM virtual network settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Name|ws2019-06-vnet|
   |Address range|10.60.0.0/20|
   |Subnet name|subnet0|
   |Subnet range|10.60.0.0/24|

1. Back in the **Create a virtual machine** blade, on the **Networking** tab, specify the following settings, leaving all other settings with their default values:

   *Table 4: Azure VM networking settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Public IP|None|
   |NIC network security group|None|
   |Accelerated networking|Off|
   |Place this virtual machine behind an existing load balancing solution?|No|

1. Select **Next: Management >**, and in the **Create a virtual machine** blade, on the **Management** tab, specify the following settings, leaving all other settings with their default values:

   *Table 5: Azure VM management settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Boot diagnostics|On|
   |Diagnostics storage account|Use the default value.|

    >**Note**: Identify the name of diagnostics storage account. You will use it in the next task.

1. Select **Next: Advanced >**, on the **Advanced** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, review the available settings without modifying any of them, and then select **Review + Create**.

    >**Note**: Do not create the virtual machine. You will use for this purpose the autogenerated template.

### Task 3: Download the ARM template and parameters files from the Azure portal

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Create a virtual machine** blade, select **Download a template for automation**.
1. On the **Template** blade, select **Download**.
1. Select the ellipsis button next to the **template.zip** and, in the pop-up menu, select **Show in folder**. This will automatically open File Explorer displaying the content of the **Downloads** folder.
1. In the File Explorer window, copy **template.zip** to the **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod06** folder on SEA-CL1 (create a new folder if needed).
1. From the **Template** blade, navigate back to the **Create a virtual machine** blade, and close it without completing the deployment.

## Exercise 2: Modifying ARM templates to include VM extension-based configuration

### Task 1: Review the ARM template and parameters files for Azure VM deployment

1. On **SEA-CL1**, start File Explorer, and then browse to the **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod06** folder.
1. Extract the content of the **template.zip** file into the same folder.
1. Open the **template.json** file in Notepad, and review its content. Keep the Notepad window open.
1. From File Explorer, open the **C:\\Labfiles\\Mod06\parameters.json** file in Notepad and review its content.
1. Close the Notepad window displaying the **parameters.json** file**.

### Task 2: Add an Azure VM extension section to the existing template

1. On **SEA-CL1**, in the Notepad window displaying the content of the **template.json** file, insert the following code directly after the `    "resources": [` line):

   ```json
        {
           "type": "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/extensions",
           "name": "[concat(parameters('virtualMachineName'), '/customScriptExtension')]",
           "apiVersion": "2018-06-01",
           "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
           "dependsOn": [
               "[concat('Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/', parameters('virtualMachineName'))]"
           ],
           "properties": {
               "publisher": "Microsoft.Compute",
               "type": "CustomScriptExtension",
               "typeHandlerVersion": "1.7",
               "autoUpgradeMinorVersion": true,
               "settings": {
                   "commandToExecute": "powershell.exe Install-WindowsFeature -name Web-Server -IncludeManagementTools && powershell.exe remove-item 'C:\\inetpub\\wwwroot\\iisstart.htm' && powershell.exe Add-Content -Path 'C:\\inetpub\\wwwroot\\iisstart.htm' -Value $('Hello World from ' + $env:computername)"
              }
           }
        },
   ```

1. Save the change and close the file.

## Exercise 3: Deploying Azure VMs running Windows Server 2019 by using ARM templates

### Task 1: Deploy an Azure VM by using an ARM template

1. On **SEA-CL1**, switch to the browser window displaying the Azure portal.
1. In the Azure portal, on the toolbar, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box, search for and select **Template deployment (deploy using custom templates)**.
1. In the **Custom deployment** blade, select **Build your own template in the editor**.
1. In the **Edit template** blade, select **Load file**, upload the template file **template.json** that you edited in the previous exercise, and then select **Save**.
1. In the **Custom deployment** blade, select **Edit parameters**.
1. In the **Edit parameters** blade, select **Load file**, upload the parameters file **parameters.json** that you reviewed in the previous exercise, and then select **Save**.
1. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, specify the following settings, and leave the other settings with their default values:

   *Table 6: Custom template deployment settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Subscription|Use the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab.|
   |Resource group|ws2019-06-rg1|
   |Region|Use the name of the Azure region into which you can provision Azure VMs.|
   |Admin Password|Pa55w.rd1234|

1. Select **Review + create** and then select **Create**.
1. Verify that the deployment completed successfully.

    >**Note**: The deployment might take about 10 minutes.

### Task 2: Review results of the Azure VM deployment

1. In the Azure portal, on the toolbar, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box, search for and select **Resource groups**.
1. On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **ws2019-06-rg1** entry.
1. On the **ws2019-06-rg1** blade, on the **Overview** blade, review the list of resources, including the Azure VM **ws2019-06-vm0**.
1. Within the list of resources, select the Azure VM **ws2019-06-vm0** entry. 1. On the **ws2019-06-vm0** blade, select **Extensions**, and on the list of extensions, verify that the **customScriptExtension** has been provisioned successfully.
1. Navigate back to the **ws2019-06-rg1** blade, and in the **Settings** section, select **Deployments**.
1. On the **ws2019-06-rg1|Deployments** blade, select the **Microsoft.Template** link.
1. On the **Microsoft.Template|Overview** blade, select **Template**, and note that this is the same template you used for deployment.

## Exercise 4: Configuring administrative access to Azure VMs running Windows Server 2019

### Task 1: Verify the Azure Security Center Standard tier

1. In the Azure portal, on the toolbar, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box, search for and select **Security Center**.
1. On the **Security Center** blade, in the **POLICY AND COMPLIANCE** section, select **Coverage**.
1. On the **Security Center|Coverage** blade, to the right of the entry representing the Azure subscription you are using for this lab, select **Edit plan**.
1. On the **Pricing** blade, verify that the **Standard** tile is selected.

### Task 2: Review Just in time VM access settings

1. Navigate back to the **Security Center|Coverage** blade, and then in the **ADVANCED CLOUD DEFENSE** section, select **Just in time VM access**.
1. On the **Security Center|Just in time VM access** blade, select the **Unsupported** tab, and note the entry representing the **ws2019-06-vm0** Azure VM.

    >**Note**: This is expected because the Azure VM is currently not accessible from internet and doesn't have an NSG associated with its network interface.

## Exercise 5: Configuring Windows Server 2019 security in Azure VMs

### Task 1: Create and configure an NSG

1. In the Azure portal, on the toolbar, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box, search for and select **Network security groups**.
1. On the **Network security groups** blade, select **+ Add**.
1. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create network security group** blade, specify the following settings (leave others with their default values):

   *Table 7: Network security group settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Subscription|the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab|
   |Name|ws2019-06-vm0-nsg1|
   |Resource group|ws2019-06-rg1|
   |Region|the name of the Azure region into which you provisioned the Azure VM ws2019-06-vm0|

1. On the **Create network security group** blade, on the **Basics** tab of, select **Review + create**, and then select **Create**.
1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **ws2019-06-rg1** blade, and then in the list of resources, select the entry representing the newly created network security group **ws2019-06-vm0-nsg1**.
1. On the **ws2019-06-vm0-nsg1** blade, review the listing of the default inbound and outbound security rules, and then in the **Settings** section, select **Inbound security rules**.
1. On the **ws2019-06-vm0-nsg1|Inbound security rules** blade, select **+ Add**.
1. On the **Add inbound security rule** blade, specify the following settings, leaving all others with their default values, and then select **Add**:

   *Table 8: Network security group rule settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Source|Any|
   |Source port ranges|*|
   |Destination|Any|
   |Destination port ranges|80|
   |Protocol|TCP|
   |Action|Allow|
   |Priority|300|
   |Name|AllowHTTPInBound|

### Task 2: Configure Inbound HTTP access to an Azure VM

1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **ws2019-06-rg1** blade, and then in the list of resources, select the entry representing the Azure VM **ws2019-06-vm0**.
1. On the **ws2019-06-vm0** blade, select **Networking**.
1. On the **ws2019-06-vm0|Networking** blade, select the link designating the network interface attached to **ws2019-06-vm0**.
1. On the blade displaying the network interface properties, select **Network security group**, select **Edit**, and then select **None**.
1. On the **Choose network security group** blade, select **ws2019-06-vm0-nsg1**, and then select **Save**.
1. Back on the blade displaying the properties of the network interface, select **IP configurations**, and then select the **ipconfig1** entry.
1. On the **ipconfig1** blade, in the **Public IP address** section, select **Associate** and then, below the **Public IP address** drop-down list, select **Create new**.
1. In the **Add a public IP address** window, specify the following settings and then select **OK**:

   *Table 9: Public IP address settings*

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Name|ws2019-06-vm0-pip1|
   |SKU|Standard|

1. Back on the **ipconfig1** blade, select **Save**.
1. Navigate back to the blade displaying the network interface properties, select **Overview**. Note the value of the public IP address assigned to the interface.
1. Open another browser tab, navigate to that IP address, and verify that a webpage opens, displaying **Hello World from ws2019-06-vm0**.
1. From the lab computer, start the Remote Desktop app, and try connecting to the same IP address. Verify that the connection fails.

    >**Note**: This is expected because the Azure VM is currently not accessible from internet via TCP port 3389, only via TCP port 80.

### Task 3: Trigger re-evaluation of the JIT status of an Azure VM

>**Note**: This task is necessary to trigger re-evaluation of the JIT status of the Azure VM. By default, this might take up to 24 hours.

1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Security Center** blade, and in the **POLICY & COMPLIANCE** section, select **Coverage**.
1. On the **Security Center \| Coverage** blade, select the **Edit plan** link.
1. On the **Pricing** blade, select the **Free** tile, select **Save**, clear the check box **Microsoft may contact me about my feedback**, and select **Confirm**.

    >**Note**: Wait for about 2 minutes before you proceed to the next step.

1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Security Center \| Getting started** blade.
1. On the **Security Center \| Getting started** blade, in the **Enable standard tier on 1 subscription** blade, ensure that the check box next to your Azure subscription is selected, select the check box next to the workspace which name starts with the **DefaultWorkspace** string, select **Upgrade** and then, select **Install agents**.
1. Refresh the browser window displaying the Azure portal.

### Task 4: Configure Inbound RDP access to the Azure VM

1. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Azure Security Center** blade, and in the **ADVANCED CLOUD DEFENSE** section, select **Just in time VM access**.
1. On the **Security Center|Just in time VM access** blade, select the **Not configured** tab, and note the entry representing the **ws2019-06-vm0** Azure VM.
1. Select the **ws2019-06-vm0** check box, and then select **Enable JIT on 1 VMs**.
1. On the **JIT VM access configuration** blade, select and hold, right-click, or access the context menu from the ellipsis next to the **22** entry, select **Delete**, and then select **Save**.

### Task 5: Connect to the Azure VM via JIT VM access

1. Navigate back to the **ws2019-06-vm0** blade, select **Connect**, and then in the drop-down list, select **RDP**. 1. Note the message indicating that this VM has just-in-time access policy.

1. In the **Source IP** section, select **My IP**, and then select **Request access**.

1. When the request is approved, select **Download RDP File** and follow prompts to connect to the target Azure VM.

1. When prompted for credentials, specify the following values, and then select **OK**:

   *Table 10: Sign-in credentials*
   
   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Username|Student|
   |Password|Pa55w.rd|

1. Verify that you can successfully sign in to the Azure VM via Remote Desktop and close the Remote Desktop session.

## Exercise 6: Deprovisioning the Azure environment

### Task 1: Start a PowerShell session in Cloud Shell

1. Back in the Azure portal, open the **Azure Cloud Shell** blade  by selecting the Cloud Shell button in the Azure portal.
1. If prompted to select either **Bash** or **PowerShell**, and then select **PowerShell**.

    >**Note**: If this is the first time you're starting **Cloud Shell** and you're presented with the **You have no storage mounted** message, select the subscription you are using in this lab, and then select **Create storage**.

### Task 2: Identify all Azure resources provisioned in the lab

1. From the Cloud Shell blade, run the following command to list all resource groups created throughout this lab:

   ```pwsh
   Get-AzResourceGroup -Name 'ws2019-06-*'
   ```

1. From the Cloud Shell blade, run the following command to delete all resource groups created throughout this lab:

   ```pwsh
   Get-AzResourceGroup -Name 'ws2019-06-*'|Remove-AzResourceGroup -Force -AsJob
   ```

    >**Note**: The command executes asynchronously (as determined by the *-AsJob* parameter), so while you will be able to run another PowerShell command immediately after within the same PowerShell session, it will take a few minutes before the resource groups are actually removed.
